#### ClimMob

<!-- Marie-Angelique -->

[ClimMob](https://climmob.net/) [@doi:10.1016/j.compag.2023.108539] is a software suite for a different research paradigm in experimental agriculture. In traditional breeding, a few researchers design complicated trials in search of the best solutions for a few target environments. ClimMob enables many participants to carry out reasonably simple experiments across many environments. Taken together, this data across many environments can be very informative. It applies the principles of citizen science and choice experiments to scale the data collection process, mostly in the format of rankings. Although this data may not be as detailed as from a centralized experiment, it can be very useful to inform decisions to a wide range of locations and environments with increased external validity. ClimMob applications include testing crop varieties, evaluating agronomic practices, and investigating climate resilience strategies. The platform supports experiment design, data collection through mobile apps, and data analysis to provide actionable insights.

During a crop trial, all farmer-collected data is stored in ClimMob. When data collection is complete, the raw data is automatically uploaded via BrAPI to a central breeding database for long-term storage and analysis. To facilitate this synchronization, ClimMob uses BrAPI to retrieve curated germplasm information from breeding databases when designing a trial, significantly enhancing data quality. Additionally, a process has been developed to push analyzed data from ClimMob to the breeding databases, providing breeders with insights into the potential adoption of the tested crop varieties.
