#### Trait Selector BrAPP

<!-- Mirella & Valentin -->
<!-- the "BrAPP" description part should better fit at the beginning of the section. -->
<!-- BrAPPs are simple tools developed by the BrAPI community that are entirely reliant on BrAPI for their data requirements. Often, they are JavaScript based applications or visualizations that fit on a single web page. This means a single BrAPP can be easily shared and used by many organizations and systems, as long as those organizations have the standard BrAPI endpoints available. -->

<<<<<<< HEAD
The [Trait Selector BrAPP](https://github.com/solgenomics/BrAPI-Trait-selector) is a JavaScript-based application used to visually search and select traits from an ontology. 
The Trait Selector employs a visual aid, an image of a plant, to connect plant anatomy with relevant trait ontology terms. 
Instead of scrolling through a long list of possible traits, the user can click on pieces of the image to show the traits associated with specific plant structures.
The Trait Selector BrAPP can be used to quickly find specific traits or to identify accessions that have a specific phenotype of interest.
=======
The [Trait Selector BrAPP](https://github.com/solgenomics/BrAPI-Trait-selector) is used to search and select meaningful traits, with a visual aid to help the user find exactly what they need. Instead of searching through a long list of possible traits, the user is presented with a cartoon image of a species. They can then click on pieces of the image to show traits associated to that part of the plant. For a breeder, they might use it to quickly find specific traits to study. For a genebank user, they might use it to find varieties that have a specific trait they are interested in.
>>>>>>> 0b95ffa (general edits)

The Trait Selector BrAPP has been successfully added to Cassavabase[@doi:10.1093/g3journal/jkac078] and MGIS[@doi:10.1093/database/bax046], and it can be integrated into any website or system with a BrAPI-compatible data source. 
A breeding database would need to only implement the BrAPI endpoints for Traits, Observations, and Variables, while a genebank would require only Traits and Germplasm Attributes. 

<!-- (example screenshots coming + supplementary data: links to the git and the doc) -->
