#### Gigwa

<!-- Guilhem -->
[Gigwa](https://southgreen.fr/content/gigwa) is a Java EE web application providing a means to centralize, share, finely filter, and visualize high-throughput genotyping data [@doi:10.1093/gigascience/giz051]. Built on top of MongoDB, it is scalable and can support working smoothly with datasets containing billions of genotypes. It is installable as a Docker image or as an all-in-one bundle archive. It is straightforward to deploy on servers or local computers and has thus been adopted by numerous research institutes from around the world. Notably, Gigwa serves as a collaborative management tool and a portal for exploring public data for genebanks and breeding programs at some CGIAR centers [@doi:10.1002/ppp3.10187]. The total amount of data hosted and made widely accessible using this system has continued to grow over the last few years.

The Gigwa development team has been involved in the BrAPI community since 2016 and took part in designing the genotype-related section of the BrAPI standard. Gigwa's first BrAPI-compliant features were designed for compatibility with the Flapjack visualization tool [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btq580]. Over time, Gigwa has established itself as the first and most reliable implementation of the BrAPI-Genotyping module. Local collaborators and external partners used it as a reference solution to design a number of tools taking advantage of the BrAPI-Genotyping features (e.g., [BeegMac](https://webtools.southgreen.fr/BrAPI/Beegmac/), [SnpClust](https://github.com/jframi/snpclust), [QBMS](https://github.com/icarda-git/QBMS)). 

Some use-cases require Gigwa to also consume data from other BrAPI servers. This requirement led to the implementation of BrAPI client features within Gigwa. A close collaboration was established with the Integrated Breeding Platform team and their widely used Breeding Management System (BMS). This collaboration means both applications are now frequently deployed together; Gigwa pulling germplasm or sample metadata from BMS, and BMS displaying Gigwa-hosted genotypes within its own UI.
<!-- 
Community members typically write adhoc scripts federating data from multiple BrAPI sources using BrAPI client libraries available for R, python, and other programming languages.  For instance, phenotypes from one data source and genotypes from another in order to run various kinds of analyses such as GWAS, genomic selection or phylogenetic investigations. The most generic and widely-used of those pipelines are at least publicly distributed, and possibly web-interfaced using solutions like R-Shiny. This provides new, excitingly useful, online services, based on Gigwa-hosted data. -->
