#### GridScore

<!-- Sebastian R -->
<!-- Make distinct from Field Book, highlight what makes GridScore different -->
<!-- Better flow is needed between Field Book and GridScore -->

[GridScore](https://ics.hutton.ac.uk/get-gridscore/) [@doi:10.1186/s12859-022-04755-2] is a modern mobile application for phenotypic observations that harnesses technological advancements in the area of mobile devices to enrich the data collection process. GridScore focuses on user experience by closely mirroring the look and feel of printed field plans. It also enriches the experience with a wide range of functionalities including data validation, data visualizations, georeferencing, cross-platform support, and data synchronization across multiple devices. GridScore is a multi-platform tool which works on any reasonably modern device with a web browser including laptops, PCs, tablets and phones. Once created, trials can be transferred to collection devices using a Quick Response (QR) code. Its approach towards data collection uses a top-down view onto the trial and offers field navigation mechanisms using barcodes, QR codes, or guided walks which take the data collector through the field in one of 16 pre-defined orders.

BrAPI has further increased the value of GridScore by integrating it into the overarching workflow, from trial creation, through data collection, and to its ultimate data storage for further processing. Specifically, trial designs as well as trait definitions can be imported into GridScore using BrAPI and a finalized trial can be exported via BrAPI to any compatible database.
