### Samples and Genotypes

<!-- * General use case description(s)
* Specific tool examples 
* Alternate solutions/ why is it better with BrAPI
* future related use cases, areas to improve -->

#### DArT Sample Submission

<!-- Peter S: Stub paragraph to stimulate the writing process. Please edit, rewrite, or delete as needed. -->
The DArT genotyping lab is heavily used world wide when it comes to plant genotyping. Developers at DArT have worked with the BrAPI community to establish a standard API for sending sample metadata to the lab before genotyping. This eliminates much of the human error involved with sending samples to en external lab. 

#### MGIS

<!-- Peter S: Stub paragraph to stimulate the writing process. Please edit, rewrite, or delete as needed. -->
MGIS has germplasm and genotype data stored for many musa accessions. Through BrAPI, users are able to access this data directly from MusaBase, for use in specific experiments. 

#### GIGWA

Gigwa is a JEE web application providing means to centralize, share, finely filter, and visualize high-throughput genotyping data [@doi:10.1093/gigascience/giz051]. Built on top of MongoDB, it is scalable and can support working smoothly with datasets containing billions of genotypes. Installable from docker images or all-in-one bundle archives, it is pretty straightforward to deploy on servers or local computers and has thus been adopted by numerous research institutes from around the world. Notably, Gigwa serves as a collaborative management tool and/or a portal for exposing the data for genebanks and breeding programs for some CGIAR centers [@doi:10.1002/ppp3.10187]. Thus, the amount of data hosted and made widely accessible using this system has kept growing over the last few years.

Gigwa developers have been involved in the BrAPI community since 2016 and took part in designing the genotype-related part of the API's specifications. Its first BrAPI-compliant features were designed for compatibility with the Flapjack visualization tool [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btq580] and thus primarily turned it into a BrAPI datasource. Consequently, over time, Gigwa being the first and most reliable application implementing BrAPI-Genotyping server calls, local collaborators and even external partners used it as a reference solution to design a number of tools taking advantage of those features (e.g., [BeegMac](https://webtools.southgreen.fr/BrAPI/Beegmac/), [SnpClust](https://github.com/jframi/snpclust), [QBMS](https://github.com/icarda-git/QBMS)). But further use-cases also required Gigwa to be able to consume data from other BrAPI servers, which led to also implement API-client features into the system. Thanks to all this work, a close collaboration was progressively established with the Integrated Breeding Platform team developing the widely used Breeding Management System, that ended up in both applications now being frequently deployed together, Gigwa pulling germplasm or sample metadata from BMS, and BMS displaying Gigwa-hosted genotypes within its own UI.

Client BrAPI libraries being available for R, community members typically write ad-hoc scripts syndicating data from multiple BrAPI sources (for instance phenotypes from a datasource and genotypes from another) in order to run various kinds of analyses such as GWAS, genomic selection or phylogenetic investigations. As a perspective, we may expect the most generic and widely-used of those pipelines to be at least publicly distributed, and possibly web-interfaced using solutions like R-Shiny in order to provide new, excitingly useful online services, based on Gigwa-hosted data.

#### PHG

<!-- Lynn J. -->
The Practical Haplotype Graph (PHG) is a graph-based computational framework that represents large-scale genetic variation and is optimized for plant breeding and genetics.  Using a pangenome approach, each PHG stores haplotypes (the sequence of part of an individual chromosome) to represent the collected genes of a species.  This allows for a simplified approach for dealing with large scale variation in plant genomes.  The PHG pipeline provides support for a range of genomic analyses and allows for the use of graph data to impute complete genomes from low density sequence or variant data.

Users access the crop databases either with direct calls to the PHG embedded server or indirectly using the rPHG library from an R environment.  The PHG server accepts BrAPI endpoint queries to return information on sample lists and the variants used to define the graph's haplotypes.  In addition, PHG users utilize the BrAPI variantsets endpoint query to return links to VCF files containing haplotype data. Work on the PHG is ongoing.  We expect to support additional BrAPI endpoints that allow for slicing genotypic data based on samples and regions.
