#### QBMS

Modern breeding programs can utilize data management systems to maintain both phenotypic and genotypic data. Numerous systems are available for adoption. To fully leverage the benefits of digitalization in this ecosystem, breeders need to utilize data from different sources to make efficient data-driven decisions. With increased computational power at their disposal, scientists can construct more advanced analysis pipelines by combining various data sources.

[QBMS](https://icarda-git.github.io/QBMS) [@doi:10.5281/zenodo.10791627] R package eliminates technical barriers scientists experience when using the BrAPI calls in their analysis scripts and pipelines. This barrier arises from the complexity of managing API backend processes, such as authentication, tokens, TCP/IP protocol, JSON format, pagination, stateless calls, asynchronous communication, database IDs, and more. To bridge this gap, we have developed the QBMS R package. This package abstracts the technical complexities, providing breeders (targeted end users) with stateful action verbs/functions familiar to them when navigating their GUI systems. It enables them to query and extract data into a standard data frame structure, consistent with their use of R language, one of the most common statistical tools in the breeding community.

Since its release on the official CRAN repository in October 2021, the QBMS R package has garnered over 9400 downloads. Several tools, such as MrBean, rely on the QBMS package as their source data adapter. Moreover, the community has started building extended solutions on top of it. QBMS can serve as a cornerstone in the breeding modernization revolution by providing access to actionable data and enabling the creation of dashboards to reduce the time between harvest and decision-making for the next breeding cycle.
