#### DArT Sample Submission

<!-- Grzegorz Uszynski and Puthick Hok - Diversity Arrays Technology DArT -->
The DArT genotyping lab is heavily used world wide when it comes to plant genotyping. With over 1200 available organisms and species, client base on every continent and already many million samples processed, DArT provides services for several generic and bespoke genotyping technologies and solutions. Processes of sample tracking and fast data delivery are at the core of the ordering system developed at DArT. The ordering system is tightly integrated with DArTdb - DArT's custom LIMS operational system, which drives laboratory, quality, and analytical processes.

Diversity Arrays Technology was a part of BrAPI community since its inception. DArT developers have worked with the BrAPI community contributing to various aspects of the API specification. One key aspect was establishing a standard API for sending sample metadata to the lab for genotyping. This solution eliminates much of the human error involved with sending samples to an external lab and also allows for an automated process of sample batch transfers. Beyond sample submission, the current implementation also allows for an order status verification, automated data discovery, and data downloads. Data are delivered as standard data packages with self-describing metadata.

The current BrAPI implementation at DArT is in production and it is compatible with the newest BrAPI specification. Further details about DArT's ordering system can be found at [DArT Ordering System](https://ordering.diversityarrays.com) and also at [DArT Help](https://help.diversityarrays.com/docs/ordering).
