## Discussion

<!-- * how can BrAPI help breeders (specifically small breeders)
* Looking ahead - what needs to be done further
* Analytics
* HDP
* GraphQL?
* Field management - treatments etc
* Drones, image processing, HTP
* ChatGPT integration - BreedersGPT
* Weather & soil - why it won’t be in BrAPI -->

### BrAPI for Breeders and Scientists

The BrAPI technical specification document is meant to be read and used by software developers. However, the purpose of the specification, and the community around it, is to make things faster, easier, and cheaper for the breeders and scientists working on breeding, genetics, phenomics and other agricultural projects. BrAPI offers a convenient path to automation, interoperability, and data integration for software tools in those domains. All of the software described above could be made interoperable with manual effort, moving and editing data files by hand from tool to tool. However, when the basic structure and flow of data becomes automated, breeders and scientists can spend less time on data management and more time focusing on the science. For many, the ultimate goal is the development of a digital ecosystem: a collection of software tools and applications that can all work together seamlessly. In this ideal digital ecosystem, data is collected digitally from the beginning, reducing as much human error as possible. The data is checked by quality control and stored automatically, then it can be sent to any internal tool or external lab for further analysis with just the click of a button. This idea might sound too good to be true, but as more tools start sharing a universal data standard, automating data flow becomes easier, and the community gets closer to total interoperability. 

### Looking Ahead

The BrAPI specification will continue a controlled and necessary growth. It will enable more use cases and new types of data that might include newer scientific techniques and technologies. There will be careful evaluation of the relevance of using REST web service approaches, and in particular BrAPI, for things like drone imaging data, spectroscopy, LIDAR, metabolomics, transcriptomics, high-throughput phenotyping, pan genomes, and machine learning analysis. All of these technologies can open new avenues for research and development of new crop varieties. However, they will also generate more data, more types of data, and require data sharing between different software applications and data repositories. The BrAPI project leadership and community is committed to building the standards to support these new use cases as they arrive and become accepted by the scientific community. In fact, small groups within the BrAPI community have already start building generic data models and proposed communication standards for many of the technologies listed above. These community efforts will eventually become part of the BrAPI standard in a future version of the specification document. 

Expanding the BrAPI specification is important for the community, however it is just as important not to reinvent or compete with existing functional standards. Additions to the BrAPI specification are reviewed thoroughly by the community to make sure BrAPI is compliant with existing standards and data structures. For example, the community has requested compliance with the GFF3 standard for genomic data and the GeoTIFF standard for aerial image data. Pieces of these existing popular data structures might be integrated into the overall BrAPI standard documentation. In some cases, BrAPI will only reference other standards instead of including them in the specification. For example, there have been community discussions around developing connections with the NOAA CDO standard for weather data, or the Galaxy Analytics API for analytics pipeline controls and information. These standards are perfectly adequate on their own, recreating them in the BrAPI standard would be redundant and outside the main scope of the project.

### Conclusion

The BrAPI project only exists because of the community of software engineers, biologists, and other scientists who support and use it. While there were many tools and use cases presented here, it is not an exhaustive list of all BrAPI-compliant systems. As long as the standard continues to be supported, there is potential for exponential growth of the community. As more groups make their tools BrAPI compliant, these tools can be shared with the community. As more BrAPI-compliant tools are shared with the community, more groups can see the value in implementing BrAPI in their own tools. This feedback loop will allow the community to strengthen and grow.

If this manuscript is your first introduction to the BrAPI project, the authors invite you to join the community. More information is always available at [brapi.org](https://brapi.org). 
