## Methods

The BrAPI Project day-to-day operations are run by the BrAPI Project Coordinator, overseen by the grant PI and Co-PI. The BrAPI Project Coordinator is responsible for the general maintenance of the project infrastructure, as well as coordinating updates to the standard. They organize community events and encourage collaboration between community groups. Long term planning and organization is handled by the BrAPI Advisory board. This is a board of 6 community members who are elected by the community to represent their interest in the project. 

The standard documentation is stored and maintained in a GitHub repository. The core documentation is written using the OpenAPI 3 documentation standard, and can be easily transformed into other documentation standards as needed. Copies of the core documentation is published on the API documentation sites Apiary and SwaggerHub for maximum accessability by the community. All these online locations are public, and the specification has a standard MIT open source license. 

New versions of the BrAPI standard are developed periodically based on community demand. Problems and enhancements are collected by the community over time, then implemented together to create a new stable version. This ensures the standard stays up=to-date and relevant to the community, but maintains a certain level of stability over time. Minor version updates are designed to be backward compatible to further enhance the stability of the standard. 

As discussed above, hackathon events are the primary way the BrAPI community stays together. One in-person and one virtual event per year maintain project momentum and social comradery. The hackathons provide a dedicated time to discuss issues and enhancements with the specification, particular use cases, and generally how the community is run and organized. For some groups, the BrAPI hackathon provide the only time they have to work on BrAPI related implementations, due to other constraints in their normal work. 
