## Data Availability Statement {.page_break_before}

No data was generated from this project.

## Code Availability Statement 

The all of software and documentation generated by the BrAPI project is free, public, and open source. Everything is available under the MIT open source license, and can be accessed through [brapi.org](https://brapi.org). Most of the other software projects referenced and discussed here are also open source and the text contain links to their repositories or project pages. However, the authors take no responsibility for their availability or licensing. 

## Competing Interests Statement 

The authors declare no competing interests.

## Acknowledgements 

The authors would like to acknowledge the following funding sources:

+ The BrAPI Project is funded by the USDA grant NIFA-DSFAS 2022-67021-37024.
+ Innovation Lab for Crop Improvement Cornell, FFAR
+ The AGENT project is funded by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement no. 862613.
+ This work was supported by the Agence Nationale de la Recherche, programme Investissements d'avenir, ANR-11-INBS-0012 (Phenome)      
+ USDA National Institute of Food and Agriculture National Research Support Project 10
+ USDA NIFA: 2022-51181-38449
+ U.S. Department of Agriculture, under agreement numbers [8062-21000-043-004-A, 8062-21000-052-002-A, and 8062-21000-052-003-A]
+ The Bill and Malinda Gates Foundation in cooperation with the Excellence in Breeding Platform of the CGIAR
+ This work was funded by ELIXIR, the research infrastructure for life science data.
+ This work was supported by ELIXIR, the research infrastructure for life science data.
+ The French Networks of Biological Resource Centres for Agricultural, Environmental and Life Sciences, doi: 10.15454/b4ec-tf49

## Author Contributions {.page_break_before}

+ **Peter Selby**: Peter wrote and edited a significant portion of the manuscript. Peter has been the BrAPI Project Coordinator since 2017, managing the day-to-day operations of the BrAPI project.
+ **Rafael Abbeloos**: Rafael wrote the section on the PIPPA project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the PIPPA project. 
+ **Anne-Francoise Adam-Blondon**: Anne-Francoise has made significant contributions to the Florilège, FAIDARE and AGENT projects. 
+ **Francisco J. Agosto-Pérez**: Francisco wrote the section on the ImageBreed project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the ImageBreed project. 
+ **Michael Alaux**: Michael has made significant contributions to the AGENT project. 
+ **Isabelle Alic**: Isabelle wrote the section on the PHIS project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the PHIS project. 
+ **Khaled Al-Shamaa**: Khaled wrote the section on the QBMS project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the QBMS project. 
+ **Johan Steven Aparicio**: Johan wrote the section on the Mr.Bean project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the Mr.Bean project. 
+ **Jan Erik Backlund**: Jan Erik has made significant contributions to the BMS project. 
+ **Aldrin Batac**: Aldrin has made significant contributions to the BMS project. 
+ **Sebastian Beier**: Sebastian wrote the section on the DivBrowse project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the DivBrowse project. 
+ **Gabriel Besombes**: Gabriel has made significant contributions to the PHIS project. 
+ **Alice Boizet**: Alice wrote the section on the Florilège projects, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the Florilège, Gigwa and ShinyBrAPPs projects. 
+ **Matthijs Brouwer**: Matthijs has made significant contributions to the AGENT project. 
+ **Terry Casstevens**: Terry has made significant contributions to the PHG project. 
+ **Arnaud Charleroy**: Arnaud has made significant contributions to the PHIS project. 
+ **Keo Corak**: Keo wrote the section on the SCT project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the SCT project. 
+ **Chaney Courtney**: Chaney wrote the section on the Field Book project, and has made significant contributions to the Field Book project. 
+ **Mariano Crimi**: Mariano has made significant contributions to the BMS project. 
+ **Gouripriya Davuluri**: Gouripriya has made significant contributions to the AGENT project. 
+ **Kauê de Sousa**: Kauê wrote the section on the ClimMob project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the ClimMob project. 
+ **Jeremy Destin**: Jeremy has made significant contributions to the FAIDARE project. 
+ **Stijn Dhondt**: Stijn has made significant contributions to the PIPPA project. 
+ **Ajay Dhungana**: Ajay wrote the section introductions for the Phenotyping, Genotyping, and Germplasm topics.
+ **Bert Droesbeke**: Bert wrote the section on the BrAPI2ISA project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the BrAPI2ISA project. 
+ **Manuel Feser**: Manuel wrote the section on the MIRA project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the MIRA project. 
+ **Mirella Flores-Gonzalez**: Mirella wrote the section on the Trait Selector BrAPP projects, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the Trait Selector BrAPP and Breedbase projects. 
+ **Valentin Guignon**: Valentin wrote the section on the BrAPI Mapper and MGIS  projects, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the BrAPI Mapper, MGIS, and the Trait Selector BrAPP projects. 
+ **Corina Habito**: Corina wrote the section on the BMS project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the BMS project. 
+ **Asis Hallab**: Asis wrote the section on the Zendro project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the Zendro project. 
+ **Puthick Hok**: Puthick has made significant contributions to the DArT Sample Submission project. 
+ **Lynn Carol Johnson**: Lynn wrote the section on the PHG project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the PHG project. 
+ **Sook Jung**: Sook wrote the section on the BIMS project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the BIMS project. 
+ **Paul Kersey**: Paul has made significant contributions to the AGENT project. 
+ **Andrzej Kilian**: Andrzej has made significant contributions to the DArT Sample Submission and DArTView projects. 
+ **Patrick König**: Patrick has made significant contributions to the AGENT project. 
+ **Suman Kumar**: Suman has made significant contributions to the AGENT project. 
+ **Josh Lamos-Sweeney**: Josh wrote the section on the G-Crunch project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the G-Crunch project. 
+ **Laszlo Lang**: Laszlo has made significant contributions to the Zendro project. 
+ **Matthias Lange**: Matthias wrote the section on the AGENT project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the AGENT project. 
+ **Marie-Angélique Laporte**: Marie-Angélique wrote the section on the ClimMob project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the ClimMob project. 
+ **Taein Lee**: Taein has made significant contributions to the BIMS project. 
+ **Erwan Le-Floch**: Erwan has made significant contributions to the AGENT project. 
+ **Francisco López**: Francisco has made significant contributions to the GLIS project. 
+ **Brandon Madriz**: Brandon wrote the section on the ClimMob project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the ClimMob project. 
+ **Dorrie Main**: Dorrie has made significant contributions to the BIMS project. 
+ **Marco Marsella**: Marco wrote the section on the GLIS project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the GLIS project. 
+ **Maud Marty**: Maud has made significant contributions to the FAIDARE project. 
+ **Célia Michotey**: Célia has made significant contributions to the Florilège and FAIDARE projects. 
+ **Zachary Miller**: Zachary has made significant contributions to the PHG project. 
+ **Iain Milne**: Iain has made significant contributions to the Flapjack, Gridscore, and Germinate projects. 
+ **Lukas A. Mueller**: Lukas wrote the section on the Breedbase project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the Breedbase project. Lukas is also Co-PI on the current BrAPI Grant and has supported the BrAPI project since its inception.
+ **Moses Nderitu**: Moses wrote the section on the DArTView project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the DArTView project. 
+ **Pascal Neveu**: Pascal has made significant contributions to the PHIS project. 
+ **Nick Palladino**: Nick has made significant contributions to the DeltaBreed project. 
+ **Tim Parsons**: Tim has made significant contributions to the DeltaBreed project. 
+ **Cyril Pommier**: Cyril wrote the section on the FAIDARE projects, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the Florilège, FAIDARE, and AGENT projects. Cyril has also made significant contributions to the Germplasm and Phenotyping modules of the BrAPI specification.
+ **Jean-François Rami**: Jean-François wrote the section on the ShinyBrAPPs project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the ShinyBrAPPs project. 
+ **Sebastian Raubach**: Sebastian wrote the section on the GridScore and Germinate projects, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the GridScore, Germinate, and Flapjack projects. 
+ **Trevor Rife**: Trevor wrote the section on the Field Book project, and has made significant contributions to the Field Book project.
+ **Kelly Robbins**: Kelly is the PI for the BrAPI Project grant, and has supported all technical and scientific aspects of the project.
+ **Mathieu Rouard**: Mathieu wrote the section on the MGIS and GIGWA projects, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the MGIS and GIGWA projects. 
+ **Joseph Ruff**: Joseph has made significant contributions to the AGENT project. 
+ **Guilhem Sempéré**: Guilhem wrote the section on the Gigwa project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the Gigwa project. 
+ **Romil Mayank Shah**: Romil has made significant contributions to the SCT project. 
+ **Paul Shaw**: Paul wrote the section on the Helium project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the Helium project. 
+ **Becky Smith**: Becky has made significant contributions to the Flapjack project. 
+ **Nahuel Soldevilla**: Nahuel has made significant contributions to the BMS project. 
+ **Anne Tireau**: Anne has made significant contributions to the PHIS project. 
+ **Clarysabel Tovar**: Clarysabel has made significant contributions to the BMS project. 
+ **Grzegorz Uszynski**: Grzegorz wrote the section on the DArT Sample Submission project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the DArT Sample Submission project. 
+ **Vivian Bass Vega**: Vivian has made significant contributions to the Zendro project. 
+ **Stephan Weise**: Stephan has made significant contributions to the AGENT project. 
+ **Shawn C. Yarnes**: Shawn wrote the section on the DeltaBreed project, and has made significant contributions to the BrAPI compatibility of the DeltaBreed project.

## References {.page_break_before}

<!-- Auto generated references here -->
<div id="refs"></div>
